---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-dailynotes/2023-05-09/","noteIcon":"2","created":"","updated":""}
---

## LiquidText and my opaque memory


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/liquid-text/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




I bought LiquidText (henceforth LQ) with a onetime purchase price of around $30 for the “Enterprise” edition when I noticed how amazing it was to be able to link any two points within a document or even between documents. Also, the ability to add all kinds of annotation: 
- Select text and choose a color highlight
- Make a comment to that selection
- Make it an auto-excerpt, which in turn has its own comments or highlights 
- Comment boxes can be linked
- A comment box can have drawing in it
- Free form drawing and highlighting

I used to read several PDF books only on LQ for its versatility of note-taking, but I stopped, I think not because I didn't enjoy the functionality, but because I grew out of the habit of reading and learning from books (especially about musical theory and harmonization).

Forgetting about the real reason I stopped somehow misled me into thinking I didn't like LQ as a highlighting app. So, when recently I started to care about note-taking and annotating again, I counted out LQ as “obsolete” in my toolbox.

I'm glad today I stumbled upon this [article](https://leancrew.com/all-this/2020/05/highlighting-with-highlights-and-liquidtext/), which reminded me that LQ has all the features I've been looking for that are lacking in the OB plugin Annotator, despite its tight integration into OB.

So, I'm officially excited about reading and note-taking in LQ again! This time, with a lot more knowledge about note-taking tools and techniques in general and OB in particular, I am appreciating LQ more.

A timely decision: I just ordered the critically acclaimed Nuphy wireless keyboard that supports up to four devices at once. When I can type as fast on the iPad as I can on Mac, I'll definitely love the iPad's uniqueness in multi-mode input combining the Pencil and keyboard.

As an aside: I should question whether I have mistreated [[MarginNote\|MarginNote]] in the same way. After all, I spent just as much to buy it. Cost is no issue at this point. But if I neglect MN based on my faulty memory, it would be such a pity.

## [[LiquidText full feature list\|LiquidText full feature list]]

- [DEVONthink + LiquidText forum](https://www.google.com/search?q=define+trifecta)
- [LiquidText lacks linking to the outside world](https://www.reddit.com/r/LiquidText/comments/r99tzg/integration_into_a_larger_information_environment/), or has that changed?

</div></div>
