---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-dailynotes/2023-06-08/","noteIcon":"2","created":"","updated":""}
---

# Trading sleep for a 5AM job paying peanuts
Today I successfully completed an online interpretation assignment. I accepted this rather low-paying job for a clear reason. While it went well, I am writing this down, stating that for the record I will not sacrifice sleep again for a job that starts at 5AM when it was still dark outside. The last time I did this was two years ago, twice, when I took two WHO assignments in the ungodly hours of 3AM. I was just starting out, and would take anything just to have the experience. The pay was at least reasonable. This time, it was a lowball pay. Normally I wouldn't even think about it, especially if the event is heavily scripted, requiring extra hours to prepare. Yes, I accepted this job with the specific goal in mind. In hindsight, I won't trade my sleep and health for this again, unless the pay is at least 3X as much. When will that happen with this agency? When hell freezes over.

---
# Data migration note: Apple Notes into Obsidian
#data/migration
#AppleNotes 

I did a dump using [[Exporter\|Exporter]] and put the results in this OB folder: `AppleNotes archive (Exporter dump)`.

Treat this data as experimental and read-only, for search and exploration. ==Don't change the content in any meaningful way== because the original copy still lives live in Apple Notes. The whole folder may be deleted and reimported, or cleaned up in some way.