---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-dailynotes/2023-04-25/","noteIcon":"2"}
---

# Substance over structure on note-taking


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/substance-over-structure/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




date-created:: 2023-04-24

#note-taking 
#meta 
## Musings on note-taking on this digital garden

I should make the writing more organic and *[atomic](https://notes.andymatuschak.org/Evergreen_notes_should_be_atomic)* à la Matuschak Evergreen Notes. /

#paste/glasp 
#### Metadata
- Title: Evergreen notes should be atomic
- Tags: #note-taking
- URL: https://notes.andymatuschak.org/Evergreen_notes_should_be_atomic
#### Page Comment
- atomic note; atomicize; atomicization; Evergreen notes
#### Highlights & Notes

- Evergreen notes should be atomic It’s best to create notes which are only about one thing—but which, as much as possible, capture the entirety of that thing.  This way, it’s easier to form connections across topics and contexts.

/ and less top-down organizational and taxonomic or with too much enumerating. The latter tendencies are perhaps out of an innate predilection for order and neatness, or even OCD, but I can feel they will end up obstructing thinking rather than foster it. Let thought run free and be expressed freely in notes scattered about, and links and backlinks will take care of connecting them.

For example, I should refrain from neatly creating hierarchical notes like this

| [[Dictionaries and thesauri\|Dictionaries and thesauri]] 
| ---- [[AHD5\|AHD5]]
| -------- issue of grammar found in an AHD5 definition

just for the purpose of writing about a seemingly quirky intransitive sense for `discuss` in AHD5. Instead, I should simply and directly create a note for the **substantive** issue of [[Absolute verbs 不明示受詞的「絕對」動詞\|Absolute verbs 不明示受詞的「絕對」動詞]], link it to the most obvious topic of [[Grammar\|Grammar]] to create at least one connection, and stop caring about whether higher-order categories of `dictionaries` or `AHD5` should exist or how and where they should fit in.

---
[[Andy Matuschak's Mysterious Sliding-Notes System\|Andy Matuschak's Mysterious Sliding-Notes System]]

</div></div>


---
# [[WebP\|WebP]]

# [[Obsidian plugins for ChatGPT\|Obsidian plugins for ChatGPT]]