---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-dailynotes/2023-07-01/","noteIcon":"2","created":"","updated":""}
---

# First taste of Perl 6

Woohoo! Running it is believing. Now I believe Perl 6's regex voodoo is a reality, not just a figment of my imagination.


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/my-first-non-hello-world-perl-6-program/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">

$<div class="markdown-embed-title">

# My first non-"Hello world!" Perl 6 program

</div>



#Perl6

#### Invoking perl6 from the good ol' command line
```
ekliao@ELI-1T-Side-MBP14 ~ % perl6

Welcome to Rakudo™ v2023.06.
Implementing the Raku® Programming Language v6.d.
Built on MoarVM version 2023.06.
To exit type 'exit' or '^D'
```
#### Entering actual code here
```
[0] > for '/usr/share/dict/words'.IO.lines -> $word {
* say $word if lc($word) ~~ /^ .e.rl $/;
* }
```
#### Executing code
```
ceorl
pearl
[0] > 
```
As is its wont, in just two lines of code, Perl 6 does something that would have taken like 20 lines in Python and 100 lines in Java in my guesstimation: it takes in all words in the built-in English word file (`/usr/share/dict/words`), one per line, and prints all words that match the regex `^ .e.rl ---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-dailynotes/2023-07-01/","noteIcon":"2","created":"","updated":""}
---

# First taste of Perl 6

Woohoo! Running it is believing. Now I believe Perl 6's regex voodoo is a reality, not just a figment of my imagination.

. Turns out there are two.

One apparent convenience Perl 6 has over Perl 5 is that the whitespace inside a regex pattern is by default ignored, to enhance readability. Another feature not illustrated here is that single-line comments (beginning with the \# character) can be embedded in regex too. I really appreciate this effort to encourage more regexing!

</div></div>


## Next ...

I ventured into finding and installing a [[10 dailynotes/2023-07-02\|GUI IDE]].

---

# Learning French mot par mot, un mot à la fois


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/chat-gpt-can-do-french-to-english-literal-translation-dictionary-style/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">

$<div class="markdown-embed-title">

# ChatGPT can do French to English literal translation, dictionary style

</div>



#gpt 
In researching this mysterious French word that sounds like /ʁe "ɡlo/, I pulled this from the web, from a French-French dictionary site:

[src](https://www.lalanguefrancaise.com/dictionnaire/definition/reglo#0)
#paste/b
## Définitions de « réglo »

### Trésor de la Langue Française informatisé

**Réglo,** adj. inv.,arg. _Conforme au règlement:_ des souliers réglo, _marins 1917;_ une cravate réglo, _bleue, soldats. 1917_ (Esn., _Notes compl. « Poilu »_, [1919] 1956). [En parlant de pers.] Correct dans son comportement._Est-ce que j'ai déjà vu des sœurs qui ne soient pas réglo?_ (Giono,_Gds chemins_, 1951, p. 184).

### Wiktionnaire

#### Adjectif - français

**réglo** \\ʁe.ɡlo\\ _masculin et féminin identiques_ _(Familier)_

1. Conforme au règlement ; règlementaire.
    -  _En théorie il retape ces épaves : passage au marbre, tôlerie, mécanique, toujours **réglo** ; puis il revend les épaves remises à neuf, enfin, c'est ce qui apparaît au grand jour._— (Pierre Leterrier, _Chantage tous risques_, Éditions Rageot, 1992, chap. 5)

#paste/e 

I then asked GPT to translate into English for me, to confirm my understanding of the definitions.

[src: GPT](https://chat.openai.com/share/34a57b07-b064-4a75-a870-462a1097a466)
## Definitions of "réglo"

### Trésor de la Langue Française informatisé

**Réglo**, adj. inv., slang. _Conforming to the regulations:_ "réglo" shoes, sailors 1917; a "réglo" tie, blue, soldiers 1917 (Esn., Notes compl. "Poilu", [1919] 1956). [Referring to people] Correct in behavior. "Have I ever seen sisters who are not 'réglo'?" (Giono, Gds chemins, 1951, p. 184).

### Wiktionary

#### Adjective - French

**réglo** \\ʁe.ɡlo\\ (masculine and feminine identical) (informal)

1. Conforming to the rules; regulatory.
    - "In theory, he repairs these wrecks: alignment, bodywork, mechanics, always 'réglo'; then he resells the refurbished wrecks, that's what appears on the surface." (Pierre Leterrier, _Chantage tous risques_, Éditions Rageot, 1992, chapter 5)

---
Bingo! This word is perfect and exactly what I wanted. Now I can use "règlo" more confidently, in meaning and in spelling, whenever I feel like dissing, like [[Obsidian plugin - Excalidraw\|here when complaining about PDF Annotator being straitlaced]], LOL.

</div></div>
