---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/10-dailynotes/2023-04-23/","noteIcon":"2"}
---

- In checking out [[Glasp\|Glasp]] (with thanks to the indefatigable classmate [Eka Meyer](https://www.linkedin.com/in/eka-meyer-744b1725/)), I found this article: [The actual work is not note-taking](https://kmltkc.medium.com/the-actual-work-is-not-taking-notes-obsidian-22030d172f91) 

> The actual work is not reading, taking notes, or connecting your notes. The actual work happens when you start playing and tinkering with your notes. The actual work happens if you start building experience.
> 
> I personally do this in two spaces in Obsidian in form of vague-notes and thinking-notes. 
> 
> Vague-notes are more random. I create a new note — my new vague-note. I randomly pick an existing note and link it in the new vague-note. And then, I start writing whatever comes to my mind regarding that random note. I let my writing be influenced by my day and thoughts. I follow other links and notes. I just write and think. There might be something hidden or a new curiosity to discover.
> 
> Thinking-notes are more specific. If I have a thought or idea I want to think and muddle through, I create a thinking-note. I write down my thoughts, pull up notes, and create links. I try to shape the thought. But I also keep it flexible. I move the text, notes, and links around. The thought doesn’t have to result in a project or product. You don’t have to finish the thought. Come back to it whenever you feel like working on it again. Just take your time to think.
> 
> Both note styles — vague-notes and thinking-notes — are based on bottom-up and top-down note-taking methods, respectively.

A nice summary of two styles of note-taking. 

Now the meta part:

#project/completed  Figured how to quote the above using [[Glasp\|Glasp]] and incorporate it into [[Obsidian\|Obsidian]] so that it links back to the source on the web easily without me copying and pasting multiple times for the URL and the quoted material. Maybe follow this [article](https://forum.obsidian.md/t/copy-and-paste-all-sentences-i-want-in-a-web-article-at-once-on-obsidian/30022). The results are [[Glasp\|here]].


